Sample that shows how effectively detect user presence (#39)
realm/realm-kotlin-samples: AppServicesUsageSamples/apps/presence-detection/README.md

# Presence detection

> User presence detection allows to check for connectivity or activity of user or device. It has many
> applications from showing what users are available in a chat application to identify what devices are 
> malfunctioning in an industrial process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User presence detection allows to check for connectivity or activity of users or devices. It has many
applications from showing users' availability in a chat application to identify malfunctioning devices in an industrial process.
```

This sample shows how to implement user presence detection effectively using Realm and Atlas resources.

> ## Listening for local connectivity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tracking local connectivity
```

> Clients could detect whether they are connected to Atlas or not via the `SyncSession.connectionState` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients could detect whether they are connected to Atlas via the `SyncSession.connectionState` 
```

property. The values of the connection state are `DISCONNECTED`, `CONNECTING`, or `CONNECTED`.

> This property support flows via the function `connectionStateAsFlow`, if simplifies listening to 
> connectivity changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Realm supports listening to updates to the connection state via the function `connectionStateAsFlow`, and simplifies listening to 
connectivity changes to:
```

```kotlin
realm.syncSession
    .connectionStateAsFlow()
    .collect {connectionStateChange ->
        // handle connection state
    }
```

In this sample we use local connectivity detection to change the behavior of the connectivity control

> button, it would disconnect or connect the session based on whether there is or not connectivity.

Reviewer: A bit unclear what this means. Users might now have any idea about the buttons inside. Better to describe behavior in general terms so people know if it matches their use case.

Author: I have changed to more general terms.

> ## Listen for external connectivity

Reviewer: Maybe 
```suggestion
## Tracking connectivity of external devices
```
🤔

Reviewer: I think I would reorder this whole section to:
- Clarify that overall connectivity state is best maintained in a central collection
- Various ways to achieve this. 
  - Pros/Cons of relying on heart beats
  - Pros/cons forwarding logs
- Description of the actualy solution used in this sample

Reviewer: And maybe a note on installing it on multiple devices to see the updates of disconnecting from one device to see the update on another device

There are different approaches on how we can propagate to other parties the connectivity status of a 
client.

### Forwarding logs

> This approach exclusively use App services resources to perform the detection exclusively on the server premise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This approach exclusively use App services resources to perform the detection exclusively on the server.
```

> This approach exclusively use App services resources to perform the detection exclusively on the server premise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This approach exclusively use App services resources to perform the detection exclusively on the server.
```

In this sample we have configured a forward log that forward all `Sync` events to a [function](functions/logPresenceDetector.js) that detects connectivity changes. This function analyzes each log to detect if a user has started/ended a session, then it upserts the changes in a [collection](data_sources/mongodb-atlas/presence-detection/user_status/schema.json) that tracks the connectivity for that user.

This collection is part of a Sync Realm, so any changes to it would be automatically propagated all its subscriptions.

![Flow](presence-flow.svg "Flow")

The response time for this solution is up to a minute, that is what it takes to the log forwarding feature to post any new updates. Logs can be processed individually or in batches, while it does not affect the response time, doing it in batches debounces changes and eliminates redundant notification changes.

### Alternatives

Another solution that we have not covered in this sample is the clients actively notifying if they have connectivity. 

The clients would send a heart beat to the server each X seconds, then the server could poll for the clients that have not send a beat in Y amount of time, deeming them as disconnected.

> While this approach would improve the response time, it would use more resources and would scalate worse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this approach would improve the response time, it would use more resources and wouldn't scale as well.
```
